[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're going to add time intelligence and
conditional formatting
to our Power BI reports.
Having a look at our area chart,
you'll see we get
some pretty large fluctuations in
revenue from one month to the next.
And we'd like to actually
quantify these fluctuations, and
have a visualization that shows us
exactly how much we're increasing or
decreasing by from one month to the next.
And we're going to create this
visualization in our sales trends page.
So we come to the next
page in your report.
But before we can create
the visualization,
we're going to actually need
to calculate those amounts.
Now, we're actually going to
need two calculations.
To work out of the change
between this month's revenue and
the previous month's revenue.
The first thing we need to work out is,
what was the previous month's revenue?
And we can do this using a DAX
function called PREVIOUSMONTH.
All right, so let's on the right-hand
side select Order Items because that's
the table where we wanted to go.
And then we're going to click new measure.
Were going to call our new
measure Revenue Previous Month.
And we're going to type in =.
Now, what we're really trying to
do is take our revenue measure,
and filter it to only show us
the values for the previous month.
Now, you may recall from last week
that the DAX function we use to
apply a filter is the calculate function.
So we're going to put in a CALCULATE
function, C-A-L and Tab for CALCULATE.
The thing we're trying to
calculate is our revenue.
So we're just going to select revenue,
and then type a comma.
Now comes the new bit.
We want to filter our revenue to only
show the previous month's values.
So we're going to type pre, and
you'll see there are four previous
functions in DAX, and
the one we want is PREVIOUSMONTH.
So I'm going to Tab to select that.
Now like the time intelligence
functions we saw last week.
PREVIOUSMONTH requires a date variable,
and
it must be from a table where
we have consecutive dates.
So once again, we're seeing why it is so
important to have a calendar table in our
model, because it allows us to
use time intelligence functions.
We're going to select calendar date,
close our bracket for
the PREVIOUSMONTH and
close our bracket for the CALCULATE.
And then press Enter.
We probably also want
to format that measure.
So coming up to format,
let's set that to currency, and
we're going to set it
to zero decimal places.
So there's our calculation for
previous month.
Now what we need to do is get
the difference between this month and
the previous month.
That's a nice, easy measure.
So we're going to click new measure again.
We're going to call this
one month on month change,
And we're simply going to take
revenue from this month and
subtract revenue from the previous month,
nice and easy.
And press Enter.
We're now ready to create
our visualization.
And a really good choice of visualization,
if you're trying to show increases and
decreases over time,
is the waterfall chart.
So I'm just going to click onto my canvas,
and then from the visualizations,
I'm going to select waterfall chart.
And I'm just going to resize and
reposition,
so it takes up about
the first half of my canvas.
Coming to my calendar table,
I'm going to add fiscal month.
And then I'm going to add my new measure,
month on month change.
And now not only can we see exactly
how much our revenue increased or
decreased by each month.
But we get a column showing us the total
change over that financial year.
Another metric we'd like to look
at is our percentage change from
one month to the next.
And to show this,
we're actually going to include a table.
So just click to the right
of your waterfall chart.
And then under visualizations, can you
please find tables just next to matrix?
And I actually want to put my
table next to my waterfall chart.
So I'm just going to move
that up there and resize.
And similar to my waterfall chart,
I want to see fiscal month.
And I'd like to see my revenue for
this month and my revenue for
the previous month.
But there are a few changes
I need to make to the table.
So coming to my format panel,
I'm going to turn the totals off
because they don't make a lot
of sense in this situation.
And I'd also like to make my
values a little easier to read.
So under values,
I'm going to increase them to size 10.
And then I'm going to do the same for
my column headings.
I'm going to make them size 10 as well.
Okay, that's looking pretty good.
And now I just need to create one more
measure to show me my percentage change.
Now, percentage change
is easy to calculate.
We just need to take our
month on month change, and
divide it by our previous month's revenue.
So making sure we've got
Order_Items selected,
we're going to click new measure.
And this is going to be month on
month percentage change.
And I could just use my forward slash, but
Dax provides us with a much safer
divide called the DIVIDE function.
On the advantage of
the DIVIDE function is,
it allows us to handle
a divide by zero error.
And if you think about it, we don't
have any sales from before July 2017.
So we are going to end up with
a potential divide by zero.
The DIVIDE function will allow us
to specify how to handle that.
Right, so typing in DIVIDE,
first thing we need is our numerator.
That's going to be the bit at the top,
that's our month on month change.
Then a comma, and we want to divide
that by our previous month's revenue.
So revenue previous month.
And then another comma,
because this is where we specify
what to do if we get a divide by 0.
And I'm just going to type 0,
close my bracket, and press Enter.
And then again,
I will want to format this.
So we're going to set this as
a percentage with one decimal place.
That's all set up, let's now go and
add that to our table.
So finding your brand new measure,
we're going to tick on that.
And we can now see our month
on month percentage change.
And if I come to my 2018 fiscal year,
you can see it's handled that
divide by 0 beautifully.
Looking great, back to 2020,
one last thing we're going to look at,
still working in our table, we're going to
see how we can add conditional formatting.
I would like to see a green up arrow
where there's been an increase.
A red down arrow where
there's been a decrease.
And where there's been
practically no change.
So let's say, between -1% and 1%,
I just want to see a little flat line.
And we can do this with
conditional formatting.
But it's slightly hidden, so
let's see where we find it.
Make sure you've got to table selected.
We're going to come to format,
and if you scroll down slightly,
you'll find conditional formatting.
We want to add conditional formatting
to our month on month percentage change
columns, so just select that.
And then if you have a look at
the options very similar to excel,
you can change the background color,
the font color.
You can add data bars,
all the one we're looking for icons.
So can you please turn the icons on?
And those weren't the icons I had in mind.
So we're going to select
advanced controls, and
from here you can choose
the icon sets you want to use.
And the Rangers you want to apply to.
So we're going to start
by coming to style.
Click the drop down, and the ones we're
looking for are the up and down arrows.
So I'm going to select those, and
now I can specify which
ranges I want to add them to.
So the red triangle is going to
be where there's been a decrease.
So I'm going to say is greater than or
equal to.
And I'm going to say minus 100.
And I'm going to change that 10 number and
is less than.
And remember we said that we
would do everything under- 1%.
So that's going to be not point, not one.
And I'm going to change that to number.
The reason I'm not using percentages
is they won't let you go over 100%,
but you could actually
have a 200% increase.
So we're going to work with
numbers rather then for
the middle one we're going to say
is greater than or equal to -0.1.
And again number and is less than 0.1.
And finally, an increase is anything
over 0.1 and less than 100.
That's all set up.
We're going to click, OK?
And our conditional
formatting has been applied.
And of course, if we change our filters,
it automatically updates
the conditional formatting.
So we've seen how using
DAX in our calendar table.
We can add time intelligence
to our reports on.
We've even seen how we can
add conditional formatting.
The report is starting to look great on.
The next thing I want to be able to
do is share this with colleagues.
So in the next video, we're going
to have a look at some options for
sharing our power beyond reports.